Application that solves the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem. The problem information is provided through an excel (*.xlsx) document, which should contain the geographical locations of a central depot and a set of client nodes. The demands from the client nodes should also be included in the file, where the demand from the depot should be set as zero. Once a file is loaded, the program automatically determines the cost matrices and geometries associated to the network. The user should select the type of optimization to be carried out (with respect to distance or time), in the side panel through the radio buttons. The maximum capacity of the vehicles from the fleet should also be written on a specific box on the side panel. When the user has already provided the data for the problem, the programs can be executed using the action button that is also displayed on the side panel. The application provides a table indicating the order of the routes that are included in the optimal solution with its corresponding distance travelled, time taken and total demand delivered. A graphical solution is also provided which is based on geospatial information taken from OpenStreetMap databases. The routines executed within the application are based on the “Savings” and “Branch and Bound” algorithms. The osrm package was employed in order to create the cost matrices and route geometries. The leaflet package was employed to create an interactive map widget showing the routes and the nodes involved in the problem.
